and it came to pass when the Lord was
about to take up Elijah into heaven by a
whirlwind that Elijah went with Elijah
from Gilgal then Elijah said to Elisha
stay here please for the Lord has sent
me on to Bethel
as the Lord lives and as your soul lives
I will not leave you so they went down
to Bethel now the sons of the prophets
who are at Bethel came out to Elisha and
said to him do you know that the Lord
will take away your master from over you
today yes I know keep silent then Elisha
said to him
Elisha stay here please for the Lord has
sent me unto Jericho as the Lord lives
and as your soul lives I will not leave
you so they came to Jericho now the sons
of the prophets who were at Jericho came
to Elisha and said to him do you know
that the Lord will take away your master
from over you today yes I know keep
silent then Elisha said to him stay here
please but the Lord has sent me unto the
Jordan as the Lord lives and as your
soul lives I will not leave you so the
two of them went on and fifty men of the
sons of the prophets went and stood
facing them at a distance while the two
of them stood by the Jordan Elisha took
his mantle rolled it out and struck the
water
[Music]
and it was divided this way and that so
that the two of them crossed over on dry
ground and so it was when they had
crossed over that Elijah said to Elisha
ask what may I do for you before I am
taken away from you
please let a double portion of your
spirit be upon me
you have asked a hard thing nevertheless
if you see me when I am taken from you
it shall be so for you but if not and
shall not be so then it happened as they
continued on and talked that suddenly a
chariot of fire appeared with horses of
fire and separated the tool
Elijah went up by a whirlwind into
heaven and Elijah saw it and he cried
out father my father the chariot of
Israel in its horsemen so he saw him no
more and he took hold of his own clothes
and tore them into two pieces
he also took up the mantle of Elijah
that had fallen from him and went back
and stood by the bank of the Jordan and
he took the mantle of Elijah that had
fallen from him and struck for water and
said where is the Lord God of Elijah
[Music]
and when he also had struck the water it
was divided this way and that and Elijah
crossed over
now when the sons of the prophets who
were from Jericho saw him they said the
spirit of Elijah rests on Elijah and
they came to meet him and bowed to the
ground before him
look now there are 50 strong men with
your servants please let them go and
search for your master less perhaps the
Spirit of the Lord has taken him up and
cast him upon some mountain or into some
Valley but Hugh shall not send anyone
but when they urged him till he was
ashamed
he said send them
therefore they sent 50 men and they
searched for three days but did not find
him and when they came back to him for
he had stayed in Jericho he said to them
did I not say to you do not go when the
men of the cities said to Elijah please
notice the situation of the city is
pleasant as my Lord sees but the water
is bad and the ground Berendt bring me a
new ball and put salt in so they brought
it to him then he went out to the source
of the water and cast in the solvent
thus says the Lord I have healed this
water from it there shall be no more
death or Berenice so the water remains
healing to this day according to the
word of Elijah which he spoke then he
went up from there to Bethel and as he
was going up the road some youths came
from the city and mocked so he turned
around and looked at them and pronounced
a curse on them in the name of the Lord
and two female bears came out of the
woods
[Music]
then he went from there to Mount Carmel
and from there he returned to Samaria
you